{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2707
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
Introduction\
\
Gender is a topic that has been extensively studied in the context of educational achievement, particularly in the areas of math and reading skills. While historically, there have been gender differences in educational attainment, recent research has shown that these gaps are narrowing. In this review, we will explore the current state of research on the effect of gender on high school math and reading skills.\
\
Gender Differences in Math Skills\
\
Historically, males have outperformed females on math tests, leading to a gender gap in math achievement. However, recent research has shown that this gap has been narrowing, and in some cases, has even reversed. A study conducted by the National Assessment of Educational Progress (NAEP) found that the gender gap in math achievement has significantly decreased since the 1970s, and in some cases, females outperformed males on math tests.\
\
One potential explanation for this trend is changes in societal attitudes towards gender roles. As more women enter traditionally male-dominated fields, such as STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math), girls may feel more empowered to pursue these areas of study. Additionally, there has been an increased emphasis on gender-neutral education, which may have reduced the impact of gender stereotypes on math performance.\
\
However, gender differences in math skills may still exist, particularly at the higher levels of math achievement. A study published in the journal Intelligence found that while there was no significant gender difference in math skills at the elementary school level, males tended to outperform females at the high school level. This trend was particularly pronounced in advanced math courses, such as calculus.\
\
Gender Differences in Reading Skills\
\
In contrast to math skills, females have historically outperformed males on reading tests. A study conducted by the NAEP found that female fourth-graders scored significantly higher than male students on the reading portion of the exam. This trend continued through high school, with females consistently outperforming males on reading comprehension tests.\
\
One potential explanation for this trend is differences in reading habits between genders. Studies have shown that females tend to read more frequently and for longer periods than males. Additionally, females tend to be more interested in reading fiction, while males are more interested in reading non-fiction. These differences in reading habits may impact reading comprehension skills.\
\
However, gender differences in reading skills may not be as significant as previously thought. A study published in the journal Educational Researcher found that while females tend to score higher on reading tests, these differences may be attributed to differences in background knowledge rather than gender. The study found that when background knowledge was controlled for, there were no significant gender differences in reading achievement.\
\
Implications for Education\
\
The narrowing of gender gaps in math and reading skills has important implications for education. Historically, educators have used gender as a factor in academic placement and intervention. For example, males have been more likely to be placed in advanced math courses, while females have been more likely to receive reading intervention. However, as gender differences in academic achievement narrow, these practices may become outdated.\
\
Additionally, there is a growing emphasis on gender-neutral education, which aims to eliminate the impact of gender stereotypes on academic achievement. One example of this is the use of gender-neutral language and images in educational materials. Additionally, educators may consider implementing interventions that are targeted at individual students' academic strengths and weaknesses, rather than based solely on gender.\
\
Conclusion\
\
The effect of gender on high school math and reading skills has been extensively studied, and the trends in gender differences are changing. While historically there have been significant gender gaps in math and reading skills, recent research has shown that these gaps are narrowing, and in some cases, have even reversed. However, gender differences may still exist at the higher levels of math achievement, and the impact of gender stereotypes on academic achievement cannot be ignored. Educators must continue to monitor gender differences in}